Are you looking for an easy way to add questions to your Moodle database? One system that I used for my ham-exam.n8wdt.us is NOT free software like this blog site but is a free website. It is VLETOOLS.com. This site allows free access if you log in from a Facebook account otherwise they charge 15 Euros.

What this site does is to take a text file and convert it to a Moodle XML file. The text file has to be formatted to a specific format. This includes the word "Category: XXXXX" as the the first word of each question and it is on it's own line where XXXXX is the name of the category. The next line has "Name: XXXXX" where XXXXX is the name of the question. Neither of these two items are seen by the student. If there is no name statement then the conversion program inserts the text of the question for the name.

Then the question is entered all on one line. If the text file is imported from a PDF file then there might be extra paragraph markers in the middle of the sentences. These need to be removed. I have found that the LibreOffice Writer program good for editing this file when the hidden characters option is turned on.

Next comes each of the answers if this is a multiple choice type of question. This is the default type of question although other types of questions can be used. I think if any of these other types of questions are used then that needs to be stated at the top of the question.

After all answers have been entered then the word "Answer: X" needs to be added where the X is the letter of the correct answer. Now an empty line needs to be added before the next question is added following the above instructions.

Once the text file is completed it can be up loaded to the web site, or as I did in my text file I did a "CTRL-A" and then a "CTRL-C" and then at the web site I did a "CTRL-V" to add the contents of the file. Then click the "Preview" button to see the resulting file output. Scroll to the end of the file where any errors will be shown. If there are any then the text file needs to be corrected. Two problems that I had was forgetting the ":" and having extra paragraph markers in the middle of the sentence. Once your satisfied with the view then you can click on the "Download" button to copy the created file to your hard drive. You then go to your Moodle site and the Question Bank area and click on "Import questions". This will then import the file for you.
